Setting up the WIFI connection  

The Clock needs to make occasional connections to the internet to set the time 
and ensure it stays correct. For this you need to set the WIFI network 
name and password.  

1.	On first powering up the NeoClock the display will be all blue. 
	This shows that there is no network configuration set.
	  
2. 	Go to WiFi settings on your PC, phone or tablet.

3. 	On the list of available networks you should see CLOCK. This is a (very) 
	temporary network provided by the NeoClock. It only exists while the 
	WIFI is being set up. Connect to this network, no other network is 
	required. It may warn of no internet connection, this is normal.  
	
4. 	Open your favourite web browser and, in the address box, enter: 
		192.168.4.1 
	This should bring up a ‘Clock Dashboard’ with fields for the WIFI, time
	and shape parameters. It should automatically detect the strongest local network.  

6. Carefully enter your correct / required parameters and save them. On clicking the
   ‘Save’ button the display should go green.  The clock will soon switch to displayimg 
   time using the selected style. 

Once time is set the network disconnects. It will briefly reconnect and reset time twice
a day at 10:05 and 20:05. 

Note for the UM crystal display using blocks time shows as intended with USB 
port to left when viewed from front.  

This setup only needs doing once in a location. NeoClock remembers WIFI, shape and time parameters.  

Should network parameters be set incorrectly or the WIFI network is not available NeoClock will try 
to connect for a while. The display will then go solid blue. Repeat the instructions above to reconnect.

Using NeoClock

To start with a warning the 'crystals' are not secured in place and some are loose enough to fall out if clock is tipped
over. They are easy to put back but if lost replacements would be problematic.

The time displays work best if the power connector is on the left with buttons at the bottom.  

On powerup the clock shows 29:59, once a network connection is made this will soon switch to the correct time. 

Currently NeoClock operates on GMT / BST which change automatically.  An offset can be set 
when setting up the clock for non GMT use, if an offset is set then daylight saving won’t 
be automatically set.  

A long press on the button nearest the corner will select the next time display format. There 
are currently 7 available formats. All tell the time, some are more readable than others. No clues as
to how formats work, only one is obvious.

A short press on the button nearest the corner toggles display on and off.

There is a delay of up to 5 seconds in display updating as it only updates every multiple of 5 seconds, be patient.

Some technical details

The clock uses Unexpected Makers Light Crystals LED Art Kit. This presents an array of 9 x 9 RGB LEDS. Control is provided by
an ESP32-S3 microcontroller module. The software that controls the clock is written in micropython and, if you know what you 
are doing, can be accessed and modified. Only do this if you really know what you are doing! This is quite complex 
code. It uses asynchronous programming extensively along with closures and properties. And why NeoClock? The LED array is what is known as a neopixel array and is driven by
a NeoPixel class from micropython, hence NeoClock.




